WIP: docs(gpu): gpu instances documentation (#275)
scaleway/docs-content: compute/gpu/how-to/use-pipenv.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to use pipenv to create virtual environments
  description: This page explains how to use pipenv to create virtual environments with your GPU Instance
content:
  h1: How to use pipenv to create virtual environments
  paragraph: This page explains how to use pipenv to create virtual environments with your GPU Instane
dates:
  validation: 2022-03-25
  posted: 2022-03-25
---
  
Pipenv is a package and dependency manager for Python projects. It harnesses the power of different existing tools, bringing their functionalities together: 
  - **pip** for Python package management
  - **pyenv** for Python version management
  - **Virtualenv** for creating different virtual Python environments
  - **Pipfile** for managing project dependencies

> Pipenv is pre-installed on all of Scaleway's AI Docker images for GPU Instances. Launching one of these Docker images puts you in an activated pipenv virtual environment, with all your favourite packages and tools pre-installed. You can also use pipenv to create your own virtual environments, if you wish to go beyond the pre-installed python environments already provided with the various Docker images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pipenv is pre-installed on all of Scaleway's AI Docker images for GPU Instances. Launching one of these Docker images puts you in an activated pipenv virtual environment, with all your favourite packages and tools pre-installed. You can also use pipenv to create your own virtual environments, if you wish to go beyond the pre-installed Python environments already provided with the various Docker images.
```

---
meta:
  title: How to use the pipenv python virtual environment
  description: This page explains how to use the pipenv python virtual environment with your GPU Instance
content:
  h1: How to use the pipenv python virtual environment
  paragraph: This page explains how to use the pipenv python virtual environment with your GPU Instane
dates:
  validation: 2021-12-14
  posted: 2021-12-14
---

<Message type="important">

>   Prior to **TODO-DATE**, Scaleway GPU Instances were pre-installed with [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com) for managing python dependencies and virtual      environments with Python. From **TODO-DATE**, Pipenv will replace Anaconda on our AI Docker images.

Reviewer 2: Reminder to add the date

>   Prior to **TODO-DATE**, Scaleway GPU Instances were pre-installed with [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com) for managing python dependencies and virtual      environments with Python. From **TODO-DATE**, Pipenv will replace Anaconda on our AI Docker images.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Prior to **TODO-DATE**, Scaleway GPU Instances were pre-installed with [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com) for managing python dependencies and virtual environments with Python. From **TODO-DATE**, Pipenv will replace Anaconda on our AI Docker images.
```

Reviewer 3: Attention --> contenu à ajouter ici

</Message>
  
Pipenv is a package and dependency manager for Python projects. It harnesses the power of different existing tools, bringing their functionalities together: 
  - **pip** for Python package management
  - **pyenv** for Python version management
  - **Virtualenv** for creating different virtual Python environments
  - **Pipfile** for managing project dependencies

> Pipenv is pre-installed on all of Scaleway's AI Docker images for GPU Instances. A number of useful AI core packages and tools are also installed, including scipy, numpy, scikit-learn, jupyter, tensorflow and the Scakewat SDK. Depending on the container image you choose, other packages and tools will also be pre-installed, providing a convenient framework environment for you so that you can begin work immediately. For the full list of Scaleway's AI Docker images and their pre-installations, see [TODO INSERT LINK](link).

Reviewer 2: Reminder to add the link

> Pipenv is pre-installed on all of Scaleway's AI Docker images for GPU Instances. A number of useful AI core packages and tools are also installed, including scipy, numpy, scikit-learn, jupyter, tensorflow and the Scakewat SDK. Depending on the container image you choose, other packages and tools will also be pre-installed, providing a convenient framework environment for you so that you can begin work immediately. For the full list of Scaleway's AI Docker images and their pre-installations, see [TODO INSERT LINK](link).

Reviewer 3: Attention contenu à ajouter ici

      - jmespath [required: <1.0.0,>=0.7.1, installed: 0.10.0]
      - s3transfer [required: >=0.5.0,<0.6.0, installed: 0.5.0]
        - botocore [required: <2.0a.0,>=1.12.36, installed: 1.21.49]
          - jmespath [required: <1.0.0,>=0.7.1, installed: 0.10.0]
          - python-dateutil [required: <3.0.0,>=2.1, installed: 2.8.2]
            - six [required: >=1.5, installed: 1.15.0]
          - urllib3 [required: >=1.25.4,<1.27, installed: 1.26.7]
  ```

  <Message type="tip">

    To check which version of a specific package is installed, use the command `pipenv graph | grep <package>`, replacing `<package>` with the name of the relevant package.
  
  </Message>

2. Enter the following command to install a new package:

  `pipenv install <package>`

  <Message type="tip">

    To install a specific version of a package, use the command `pipenv install <package>~=1.2`

  </Message>

3. Enter the following command to uninstall a package:

  `pipenv uninstall <package>`

4. Enter the following command to update a package:

  `pipenv update <package>`

  <Message type="tip">

    To update all packages, simply run `pipenv update`
  
  </Message>

>   TODO CHECK: if the user makes changes to the preinstalled virtual environment, will these persist once the container exits? Would the ai file have to be mapped to a local volume of the instance?

Reviewer 2: Reminder to check :)

>   TODO CHECK: if the user makes changes to the preinstalled virtual environment, will these persist once the container exits? Would the ai file have to be mapped to a local volume of the instance?

Reviewer 3: Attention contenu à ajouter/verifier ici

### Launching an application in your local browser

Some applications, such as [Jupyter Lab](https://jupyter.org/) or [Code Server](https://code-server.dev/), require a browser to run. You can launch these from your Docker container pipenv virtual environment, and view them in the browser of your local machine. This is thanks to the port mapping we specified when we ran the Docker container.

1. Launch an application. Here, we launch Jupyter Lab:

  `jupyter-lab`

  Within the output, you should see something similar to the following:

  ```
  Activating14:34:30.288 ServerApp] http://df88da66d38d:8888/lab?token=...
  [I 2021-10-15 14:34:30.288 ServerApp]  or http://127.0.0.1:8888/lab?token=...
  [I 2021-10-15 14:34:30.288 ServerApp] Use Control-C to stop this server and shut down all kernels (twice to skip confirmation).
  ```

2. On your local computer, open a browser window and enter the following URL. Replace `<ip-address>` with the IP address of your Scaleway GPU Instance.

  ```
  <ip-address>:8888/lab?token=scaleway42
  ```

>   TODO: what will token be/how will they get it?

Reviewer 2: Reminder

>   TODO: what will token be/how will they get it?

Reviewer 3: Attention contenu à ajouter ici

  Jupyter Lab now displays in your browser. You can use the Notebook, Console, or other features as required:

  <Lightbox src="scaleway-jupyter-lab.png" alt="" />

> 3. Use CTRL+C in the terminal window of your GPU Instance / Docker container to close down the Jupyter server when you've finished.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Use `CTRL+C` in the terminal window of your GPU Instance / Docker container to close down the Jupyter server when you have finished.
```

### Understanding Pipfile

Every pipenv virtual environment has its own Pipfile. The Pipfile details the dependencies of the project, taking the place of the typical `requirements.txt` file. When you create a Pipenv environment, a Pipfile is automatically generated.

1. From `ai` directory, type `ls` to list all files in this directory

  The output should be similar to the following:

  ```
  (ai-NTxBFBeG) root@43496cfae3f1:/ai# ls
  Pipfile  Pipfile.lock  code-server_3.12.0_amd64.deb  mnist.py
  ```

2. Enter the command `cat Pipfile` to view the contents of Pipfile. The following information will help you understand the output:

>     - `source` specifies the sources where available apackages are added/installed from 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - `source` specifies the sources where available packages are added/installed from 
```

    - `packages` lists the packages required for the project (production and development environments)
    - `dev-packages` lists the packages required for the project (development environments only)
    - `requires` specifes the required python version for the project

>   Any packages that you explicitly install with the command `pipenv install <package>` will automatically be added to the Pipfile. However, note that the pre-installed packages of the virtual environment are not listed. [TODO CHECK THIS WON'T CHANGE] You will need to add them yourself for easy installation of your project outside of the pre-installed environment. For example, if you will push your project to a Git repository, other users who clone it will be able to install all dependencies, based on the Pipfile, with the command `pipenv install`.

Reviewer 2: Reminder to check/remove the TODO

>   Any packages that you explicitly install with the command `pipenv install <package>` will automatically be added to the Pipfile. However, note that the pre-installed packages of the virtual environment are not listed. [TODO CHECK THIS WON'T CHANGE] You will need to add them yourself for easy installation of your project outside of the pre-installed environment. For example, if you will push your project to a Git repository, other users who clone it will be able to install all dependencies, based on the Pipfile, with the command `pipenv install`.

Reviewer 3: Attention --> contenu à ajouter ici

3. Enter the command `cat Pipfile.lock` to view the contents of Pipfile.lock.

  This file specifies which specific versions of the packages in the Pipfile should be used. This prevents packages which depend on each other being automatically upgraded, which could break your project dependency tree.

  You can lock your currently installed packages with the `pipenv lock` command. This  generates the lock file for you automatically, based on your currently installed versions.

## Creating your own pipenv virtual environments

You may wish to create your own virtual environments with Pipenv, rather than using the preinstalled `ai` environment provided by Scaleway. Here, we show you how to do so:

1. If you already activated the pre-installed `ai` virtual environment, type `exit` to leave it.

  You should now have left (deactivated) the pre-installed virtual environment, but you are still inside the Docker Container you launched. 

2. Navigate to the home directory.

  `cd ~`

>   TODO: need to make sure we instruct user to create any new project folders in a directory that is mapped to Instnace local volumes?

Reviewer 3: Attention contenu à ajouter ici
